- [Presenter] When migrating to newer versions of Java,
most of the migration work will be focused
on fixing breaking changes.
Breaking changes appear when languages deviate
from contracts that were established in older versions.
Application code that once worked on a previous version
of the language will not function when the application
is executed on a newer version of the language
with a different API.
Throughout its history, there were few,
if any breaking changes introduced
between one major Java version to the next
and the language was known
for its strong backwards compatibility.
However, there were a lot of deprecated methods.
Recent versions of Java
have started removing deprecated methods.
Restricting access to certain packages
and removing some modules
which introduces some breaking changes.
This decision will cause some applications written
in earlier versions of Java to no longer run
or compile on newer Java versions.
To help developers adjust to the removal
of deprecated methods,
Java 9 introduced some changes
to the deprecated annotation.
The deprecated annotation now contains
the forRemoval element,
which signals to developers
that our particular deprecated method is intended
to be removed from the API in an upcoming version of Java.
It is a strong warning to migrate away from the method
or potentially face a breaking change in the future.
So you will want to pay close attention
to the deprecated annotation as you write your code
to avoid any future migration issues.
The majority of code migration issues
that you will encounter fall into one of three categories.
The first type of issue is a change
to the Java API that breaks your code.
This is caused when a class or method is removed
or modified, breaking code that once worked
with an earlier Java version.
The second category relates to entire modules
that have been removed from the language.
Removing an entire set of related classes
from the language is bound to cause issues
for applications that depended on those modules.
Often these modules will need to be sourced
from somewhere other than the Java platform.
The final type of issue that you will encounter
is related to third party libraries
that are broken because of API changes
or modules that have been removed.
When using a third party library,
you inherit any migration issues
that version of the library has with newer Java versions.
Often the providers of the library will provide
a new version that remedies those issues.
So that is a look at the typical migration issues
that you will face.
Don't be too alarmed, most are pretty simple to fix
and are very well documented.